# kcalc: in-kernel math expression evaluation for Linux

kcalc is a mathematical expression evaluator and takes string as
input, returning fixed-point numbers.

## Features

* Arithmetic, bitwise and logical operators;
* Flexiable variables;
* Customized functions;

## Fixed-point representation

kcalc introduces a fixed-point number representation for fractional values:
one 32-bit size is divided into mantissa (28 bits), sign (1 bit) and
exponent (3 bits).

```
MSB   31                               4    3   2    1   0  LSB
     +----------------------------------+------+----------+
     |     mantissa                     | sign | exponent |
     +----------------------------------+------+----------+
```

## Usage:

Build and install the module

```shell
$ make
$ sudo insmod calc.ko
$ sudo chmod 0666 /dev/calc
```

Then simply send the expression to the module

```shell
$ echo -ne "3*5\0" > /dev/calc
```

The expected output in `dmesg` should be:

```shell
calc: Received 3 -> 3*5
Result: 240
```

The result seems incorrect since we do not transform the value to normal representation.
You can use the utlity to convert values into human readable form:
```shell
$ source scripts/eval.sh
$ fromfixed 240
```

Then, you can get `15`, which is the exact result of expression `3*5`.

You can check file `scripts/test.sh` for more examples about the expressions. Alteratively,
execue `make check` for the same script.

```shell
$ scripts/test.sh

... Information generated by modinfo ...

Testing  6*7 ...
42
Testing  1980+1 ...
1981
Testing  2019-1 ...
2018
Testing  42/6 ...
7
Testing  1/3 ...
.33333330000000000000
Testing  1/3*6+2/4 ...
2.49999980000000000000
Testing  (1/3)+(2/3) ...
.99999990000000000000
Testing  (2145%31)+23 ...
29
```

## Internals

`struct expr *expr_create(const char *s, size_t len, struct expr_var_list
*vars, struct expr_func *funcs)` - returns compiled expression from the given
string. If expression uses variables - they are bound to `vars`, so you can
modify values before evaluation or check the results after the evaluation.

`int expr_eval(struct expr *e)` - evaluates compiled expression.

`void expr_destroy(struct expr *e, struct expr_var_list *vars)` - cleans up
memory. Parameters can be NULL (e.g. if you want to clean up expression, but
reuse variables for another expression).

`struct expr_var *expr_var(struct expr_var *vars, const char *s, size_t len)` -
returns/creates variable of the given name in the given list. This can be used
to get variable references to get/set them manually.

## Supported operators

* Arithmetics: `+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, `%` (remainder), `**` (power)
* Bitwise: `<<`, `>>`, `&`, `|`, `^` (xor or unary bitwise negation)
* Logical: `<`, `>`, `==`, `!=`, `<=`, `>=`, `&&`, `||`, `!` (unary not)
* Other: `=` (assignment, e.g. `x=y=5`), `,` (separates expressions or function parameters)

## License

`kcalc`is released under the MIT License. Use of this source code is governed by
a MIT License that can be found in the LICENSE file.
